# MULGA
A Drug Repositioning Method based on Multi-View Learning and Graph Autoencoder

Computational drug-protein interaction (DPI) prediction is a cost-effective strategy for drug repositioning, which alleviates the difficulty of drug development. While so many efforts have been devoted to DPI prediction, the following challenges are still open. Firstly, recent years have witnessed promising progress in computational DPI prediction, where the similarity of drugs and targets play critical roles in accurately inferring DPIs. However, based on versatile molecular features and metrics, it is hard to provide a universal and unbiased definition for similarity calculation. Secondly, most similarity-dependent DPI prediction methods preferred to build a drug-protein heterogeneous network that incorporates the validated DPIs, drug similarities, and protein similarities, and are solved via the matrix completion framework. However, they ignored the topological information embedded in the heterogeneous network. Finally, accurately differentiating the true negative samples from fake ones can provide effective guidance for computational methods to obey. However, many existing methods ignored the negative sampling strategy and caused unsatisfactory prediction performance. Confronted with those problems, we proposed MULGA to address the limitations via multi-view learning methods, graph autoencoder scheme, and a “guilty-by-association” -derived negative sampling strategy. The comparative experiments show that MULGA outperforms four state-of-art methods in both the warm-start scenario and cold-start-for-target scenario, and simultaneously, the effectiveness of multiple drug/protein features and our proposed negative sampling scheme has been further proved via ablation experiments and comparative experiments respectively. Moreover, it is so exciting that our case study of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2(SAR-CoV-2) identifies that some antiviral drugs and the drugs for curing pulmonary arterial hypertension may target Spike glycoprotein, a key protein of SAR-CoV-2, which may provide some hints for treat coronavirus disease 2019(COVID-19).
